Craig Claussen 
Cyclone Marching Band Oral History Project 
Interviewed by Dean Brand 
2024-01-10   
Time stamps reference the video interview. 
DB: Dean Brand
CC: Craig Claussen

[00:00:00]
DB: This Dean brand, an interviewer for the Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Cyclone Marching Band Oral History Project. Today is Wednesday, January 10, 2024. I am interviewing Craig Claussen. Craig is in Napa, California, and I'm in Mitchellville, Iowa. So, with preliminary out of the way, Craig.
CC: Okay.
DB: I'm assuming you don't have snow. We had nine, or ten, or eleven inches of snow yesterday, so.
CC: Oh, yes. I heard it was not a good day to be in the state of Iowa.
DB: No. It sounds like Friday is not going to get a lot better. 
[00:00:53]
DB: But anyway, could you begin by telling us a little bit about your early life? Where did you grow up, your family, that kind of thing?
CC: Sure. Happy to. I grew up in a small town of nine hundred people in northwest Iowa called Schleswig. It was a German heritage community. My father [Edward Claussen] was a banker in that community. I'm an only child, so had a fairly small family, but was a good family. [I] had good friends in school. Spent my whole childhood in the Schleswig community, obviously, and graduated from Schleswig high school system in 1965, and went straight to Iowa State after that. Again, a normal childhood. I had lots of friends, you know, meet at the local grocery store on Saturdays and have a good time, and as a little kid I would go sledding. Nothing really unusual, but it was it was a good childhood.
[00:01:57]
DB: Well, that's good. So, how did you come to be at Iowa State--and you already kind of talked about when you came to Iowa State--and what did you study while you were here?
CC: Well, when I was in high school and young, I've always enjoyed, I guess, design and beauty of the environment, and I had decided I was going to be an architect. So, that's what brought me to Iowa State. Unfortunately, when I got to Iowa State, probably the first problem that I ran into was calculus, which I did not do real well in. [Brand laughs] But I also learned that in addition to designing these beautiful structures that was my hope, that I had to make them stand up. There were all kinds of engineering courses. I wasn't too interested in that part of it, so I was not in the architecture very long. I moved over after some decisions and just--shouldn't say just--but ended up in business and got the degree at that time was called Industrial Administration, but it’s now part of the School of Business [Ivy College of Business].
[00:03:07]
DB: Okay. What bands were you involved with while you were at Iowa State?
CC: I was involved in most of the bands. I was involved in marching band--well, really all the bands, I think, all four years. The marching band probably was my favorite. I was also in what they called the Iowa State Symphony Band, which was a concert band during the other months, the winter and the spring. I was in the pep band for the basketball season. I participated one year in the orchestra with the VEISHEA [Veterinary medicine, Engineering, Industrial Science, Home Economics, Agriculture] concert, the VEISHEA production that was put on every year during VEISHEA [annual student-run festival celebrating Iowa State departments, (1922-2014)]. The one I was in that year, the production was West Side Story.
DB: Okay. Yes, I remember that. That was must have been either your junior or senior year because that's two years that our lives overlapped and Iowa State, if you will.
CC: So yes, music was important. Separate from Iowa State, I also was in a small combo [Alfred-Craig Trio] with two high school friends [Alfred Friedrichsen and Craig Broers]. We just had a piano, bass, and drums, and would play at a couple of the local restaurants and areas where there was a little dance floor, and played mostly old-fashioned music that our parents’ generation could dance to. But it was a fun little gig and we had a good time doing that, so music has always been an important part of my life.
DB: Sure. I agree.
[00:04:54]
DB: So, what section of the marching band were you in?
CC: I am percussion. First year, I was always percussion instrument, but I just used the cymbals the first year, and then I started carrying drums in the later years. Percussion is one of the things that--well, all parts are important to the band--but we're the ones that had to keep the tempo and keep playing even when instruments weren’t playing musical songs. We had to keep the tempo going and keep the band together.
[00:05:32]
DB: You say you graduated, quote, unquote, from the cymbals to drums. Which one of the drums do you play? Although I don't think--
CC: We played snare drum and what they call a tenor drum, which is carried over your shoulder much like a snare drum when you're marching, but you played it more with a mallet kind of thing, and it was a little deeper kind of sound coming out of the drum.
DB: Okay, alright. Yes, because now they're using quads along with the snares and the basses.
CC: Right. I don't know if we weren’t big enough, but we didn't have those kinds of things.
DB: Yes, I don't think they even had them then, so it's something newer, but I can tell you from help unloading the truck from the ball games, those suckers are heavy. [both laugh]
CC: Yes. I was kind of a little wimp at the time, so it's probably a good thing I didn't have to carry one of those.
DB: Yes, the folks that are carrying those have got some muscles or some back, anyway. 
[00:06:39]
DB: For you then, in your era--and I kind of think I know where it is, but this is for the folks that are listening or watching this--what was the process of learning and then performing our show?
CC: You know, I was trying to think back on that. We practiced always late in the afternoon. I don't think it was every day during the week. I think there was maybe just three times normal practice sessions. If we really needed extra practice sessions, they would squeeze those in. The band room was a small building on what was at that point the west side of the campus, because I remember kind of behind some of the engineering buildings. So, we would often, you know, practice the songs in there, and then we run down to the area where we practice the marching. It was set up like a football field, so we could work on the steps we had to take and create the pictures and things that we you needed and used in each of the productions every week.
DB: Yes, as I recall, the building was kind of cattywampus from Beyer Hall, and that building is gone, and the practice field that we used--
CC: I want to say the practice field was kind of down west of the Armory, as I remember. I know we had to run from the music building north down the street to where the actual practice field was. 
DB: Yes, and I think they kind of moved that a couple of times over the years to the field they’re at now because they’ve built new buildings where those fields used to be.
CC: Yes, the last time I was on campus, all I remember is new buildings everywhere, so I'm sure [Brand laughs] that practice field is long gone.
DB: Yes, it is for sure. 
[00:08:51]
DB: How did you go about from getting the drill to learn the music, and then putting it all together into that performance did on Saturday or?
CC: You know, I was trying to remember too. As a drummer, I don't remember actually getting a piece of music like the other instruments did. So, we must have had some basic things that we did in all the songs, and it would, of course, be--part of the marching would be moved positions, so we had [to] do those kinds of things. I want to say there might have been printouts of the objects we were creating, and showed us where we had to march between the lines and how we moved from place to place. So, there was a visual-ness of it, and then it was a matter of going down to the field and just working on those, and being told by the directors, Okay, you've got to go here, you got to go there.
DB: Yes, like every eight counts, you know, you were in different positions.
CC: Correct [laughs].
DB: Kind of walked or whatever from point A to point B, and it was all paper then.
CC: Yes. I guess. Seems old-fashioned today, but at the time, it worked pretty well.
DB: Yes, it did. Because everything they do now is electronic on their cell phones, and just make my mind spin when I watch. [both laugh]
CC: I'm sure, would mine too.
[00:10:44]
DB: So, we talked a little bit about the where and when we practiced. Do you remember how long the rehearsals were?
CC: I don't know the exact times. I know they were late afternoon, so I was going to say an hour and a half to two hours. I want to say around four o'clock, we usually start. I'm sure we were done by six, because I know we would have time to get back to the dormitory and have dinner. So, it's, you know, probably five-thirty, six that we quit practicing each day. I do remember that when we would leave the band, we were told we had to run down to the practice field because we needed more time in the practice field. We couldn't kind of saunter down at our leisure and have a good time. We had to get there as quickly as we could.
DB: Of course, when it got later into the fall, it got dark sooner, too, [laughs] and we didn't have lights.
CC: Right. Not a good time to practice in the dark.
DB: No. So yes, I was thinking it was four, four-fifteen, something like that, and then we went to five-thirty or six depending on how much work we had to have.
CC: Right, yes. I noticed one of the questions said, “How much did you practice?” Or something about a similar kind of thing, or “How long did it take to learn?” You know, that depended a lot on, on the football schedule. Sometimes you had to put a whole new program together in a week. Other times if there are away games two in a row, you might have had longer times to put a production together. I would assume, I can't remember for sure, but I'm guessing maybe the long periods, we started maybe trying to learn two different ones at a time. But if there was a short period, they would often try and put in an extra practice because we needed that extra time.
[00:12:50]
DB: Yes. Do you recall any of the shows that you performed, and did you have a favorite one, if you remember what it was we did?
CC: You know, I don't know that I ever had a favorite. I did notice one in my scrapbook that I was looking through was all music of Henry Mancini, [Italian-American composer known for composing film soundtracks] which was really good songs during that time period. He did a lot of movie themes. One of the ones that I happen to have in my scrapbook was the “Pink Panther.” That was one of the things that we created on the field, was a picture of the face of a panther, kind of a comical one, not a real one. But it shows the kinds of things that we created to go with music that we played. So, that one reminded me of some of the things. It was always typical kinds of things from that time period. I like that kind of music, so I'm sure that was one of my favorites at the time.
[00:14:02]
DB: What do you recall was the culture of the band, and how was it shaped by the members, the drum majors, directors, university--at least in your mind?
CC: I don’t remember the university being particularly involved. You know, I think all the time you're in those kinds of organizations, you feel a camaraderie, so the band worked hard together and got along with each other. The band director was Frank Piersol [Director of Bands, (1948-1967)], who was dearly loved by all the band members. He was kind, he was good, made us work hard, and he was fun to be with. I'm not sure it was all four years, but certainly the beginning years, the drum major--I recollect his name was Jack McCullough--and he was very excellent leading the band. He was a fun person, and he really gelled us together by quips, and I remember he's clever in what he said, and made us do fun kinds of things together. Overall, it was a wonderful experience in my college years. I was kind of homesick when I first started college, so marching band was really a saving thing for me, at the time, because freshman year, it was probably one of the very few times that my home was not in the back of my head. I enjoyed the music, and I was so concentrated on working with the band, and making sure I did my part, and enjoying my time. That just became my world during those rehearsals and on Saturdays. [It] was a wonderful part of all four years, but particularly saved me in the freshman year.
DB: Yes. One, it was a good thing, but that's typical of a lot of freshmen that, you know, maybe it's their first time away from home, depending on what their activities and such have been as they've been growing up. But, yes, so that was good. 
[00:16:21]
DB: Do you have a favorite tradition that we had? Did the percussion section have a pre-game ritual?
CC: We had things that we did, I never saw it as a ritual, but certain things that we did all the time. Probably one of the things that sticks in my head--I'm guessing it might have been the drum major that came up with these, or someone else that he was friends with in the band, but the beginning years, we had our own yells at the football games separate from the ones that the cheerleaders did, that we learned out that I'm sure most people in the stadium didn't pay any attention to, but they were really fun and really unusual. I can't remember them all, but I did jot down three of them because they are just really strange. [Brand laughs] The three I remember were, one was we would yell, Repel them, repel them, make them relinquish the ball. Another favorite was, Prevent the passage of the pitily propelled prolamics projectile. Then the third one I liked was, Blood, blood, blood makes the grass grow. [Brand laughs] Blood, blood makes the grass grow. You know, they were way off base, but they were a lot of fun and certainly something only the band ever did at the football games. I always got a kick out of those. The cleverness of writing them, and then it was fun to yell them.
[00:17:58]
DB: Okay. What do you recall about our uniforms at the time?
CC: Well, the uniforms--that was one of the things when I went back through my scrapbook and had a picture of my college roommate [Kent Rogers, Mathematics 1969] who played trumpet in the band. We had a picture. The trousers were black, the coats were black with a large gold shield in the front, and in that shield was the capital letter “I” with the word “Iowa” at the top and “State” at the bottom. Then our head gear was similar, red and gold with a tassel at the at the top. I don't know if I can show it to you, probably not. Maybe a little bit.
DB: That's a little better. Yes, okay. [laughs]
CC: Kind of shows what we wore at that time. I don't know. That's what it was. We didn't question whether it was good, bad, or different. That's what we were given, told to wear.
DB: Yes, you didn't have much of a choice. Like, “Do you want to wear this outfit today? Or do you want to wear this outfit today?”  It was like, “Here you are. Go for it.”
CC: Go for it, right?
[00:19:18]
DB: Any experiences as you traveled with the band?
CC: You know, it was just always a fun time. I don't recall anything unique or unusual that happened. We actually didn't travel that much. My recollection was that they tried to have the band go to one away game at least most years, if not every other year, but for some reason, the only one I remember going to as a band was down to Kansas City. We actually played in, what I think, was the professional stadium, not a college stadium, at that time. So, I'm assuming it was the University of Kansas football game. I don't know why it happened to be held in Kansas City rather than on campus. But it was a huge stadium. Even the Iowa State one, when you come from a town of nine hundred people, Clyde Williams [Clyde Williams Field] seemed like a huge stadium at the time. Nothing like they have today. Certainly, the professional one in Kansas City was even bigger. It would always thrill me, I don’t know why, but somehow large crowds like that always add to the excitement to me, and it was just a thrill to be down on the field and know that most of them were looking down, and you were surrounded in those large stadiums. It was just a fun feeling to me.
DB: I think I was in the band when we did that. I was thinking that we went to, I want to say Kansas, and played on Saturday at their place, and then we went back to Kansas City, spent the night in Kansas City, and then played at the Chiefs game on Sunday.
CC: Oh, that could be. Maybe that's why we got to--
DB: Kind of in the back of my memory. Now whether that's right or wrong, I don't know but--
CC: Sounds good to me. I’ll believe you.
DB: Okay. [Brand laughs] Okay, so you performed to Clyde Williams just like I did. It was certainly different. I came from a small community too.
CC: When you're in high school, and you have three bleachers on each side of the football field and wide open, suddenly being in a large structure is a whole different feeling. So, I can't imagine what it's like today when you go into the stadium, and you're surrounded on all four sides by huge crowds of people. It was just exciting and a thrill to me. I don't know if there's any particular order we're talking in, but even after I graduated, I had a lot of friends. I lived in western Iowa before I moved to Napa, and my good friends there, once in a while we would go to football games, and I remember always teasing my friends and saying, “You can't go off to the bathrooms or buy soft drinks during halftime. You have to stay here while the bands performing, and only after that can you do that because the band is the most important part of the whole experience here.”
I had a cartoon--I just remembered this as we're talking now--forget the gentleman's name, but he was with the Des Moines Register, he would draw, like, political cartoons every Sunday, and he had one that I cut out. I actually gave it to a band director friend of mine a few years ago, but I had it for years. It was a couple walking out of the stadium, with the outside of the stadium in the background and all the little banners at the top, and there's this couple walking out and the husband's all grumbly and downtrodden. Obviously, they had lost the football game. But the wife is kind of smiling and she walks, and the caption under it was, “The band played well.” [Brand laughs] And I always thought, Yes, we did. Yes, we did.
DB: Yes, that was kind of a motto. I think it's still today. You know, the band always wins. 
CC: Yes. [laughs]
[00:24:00]
DB: While you were there, did we have a bowl game or anything? I think we--
CC: No.
DB: Okay. So, that was after--
CC: Not the four years I was there. You didn't go to Iowa State if you wanted a good football game back in the 1960s. We won games, and it was always obviously fun to win, but I think the football team got better known on the national level more into the seventies. I remember going when I still lived in Iowa to a bowl game down—like it was the Peach Bowl at the time--but before that, at least the years I was there, I know we didn't go to any bowl games.
[00:24:44]
DB: Okay. Alright. What do you think sets the Iowa State ‘Varsity’ Marching Band apart from other band programs?
CC: I don't know what would set that apart. You know, it was very different back then, of course. It was a much smaller band. I can't remember, was it two hundred and some, I think, in the band, but it was an all-male band. So, it's changed. I'm sure the camaraderie is just as much today even with both men and women in it. But I think at that time in history, probably just the camaraderie of being an all-male band kind of made it special. Sounds very sexist to today's world, but it wasn't meant to be that it was just the way it was. As far as marching bands from other universities, I don't have any comparison really because I wasn't involved in those kinds of things. But it was just a special group in which to participate.
DB: I think when I started in ‘67, which would have been your junior year. I think they increased the size of the band to one hundred and twenty, as I recall.
CC: Oh my. So, maybe I'm real high on that.
DB: It wasn't a large group to start with, and when you compare it today, to where they're marching three hundred and fifty. It was still a little band.
CC: Yes, I know it was much, much smaller. I don't know. I guess I'm completely wrong at the number I just threw out. I don't know where that number popped into my head. Yes, it was much smaller, so [it] would make a huge difference. Again, coming from a small school, it seemed like a huge band to me at the time.
DB: Yes. Oh, I agree. Totally. 
[00:26:53]
DB: Did you get any advice from band members when you started, or did you have any to pass along to the new folks?
CC: I suppose my answer is no to both of those questions. I don't remember any band members giving me particular advice as to how to act or how to become--you know, to enjoy the band. Other than if you made a mistake, they would say, You're supposed to be doing this instead of doing that.
DB: Yes, you got chastised about it. [laughs]
CC: But, other than that, no. There was no long-term philosophical information that I remember. [Brand laughs]
[00:27:32]
DB: Okay. How did you balance all of the band activities you were involved in, and then academics, and whatever the other pieces of your life that you had going on?
CC: You know, it just kind of fit in. I don't think I did anything special. You knew when band rehearsals were. You knew what Saturdays you performed on. You just made that plan. Again, it kind of followed through. Even back in high school when you're small schools where you're involved in the band and you're involved in putting together other activities. It becomes part of your plan, and your way of life, and you organize it around that. So, I don't think band in any way ever interfered with, certainly, academics. Couldn't study from four to six, so you studied from eight to ten, that kind of thing. I was involved in other activities, and I can't remember any huge conflicts, to be real honest, where I had to choose, I either have to do this or have to do that. Most of the time I was just able to organize them through my own schedule and not have any problems. It's better than sitting around doing nothing.
DB: Yes. So, you were a good manager of your time and studied hard.
CC: I guess. [Brand laughs] My parents must have done something well.
[00:29:08]
DB: How do you think--as you have kind of seen the marching band, quote, unquote, from a distance, if you will, after you graduated--how do you think it has changed over time?
CC: Well, the obvious thing is that now both men and women in the band, and that's really a good thing, even though it wasn't that way. As we just talked about, the size has grown hugely. So, I don't know how much difference that makes in the camaraderie between the individuals. I mean, they still work as a unit and they want to do a good job, and I'm sure they're all friends. But anytime you enlarge something, it maybe changes the feeling of it a little bit. They have probably gotten more complicated performances than we did back then. I know as I look back, they were good, and they were fun, but somewhat simplistic. I think they try to do a lot more complicated marching and figures and playing today than they did in the past. Other than that, you know, it's still a marching band that has a good time out on the field every football game.
DB: Yes, and I can verify because I had gone back to homecoming a number of years, and the band has a good time. And they work really hard. Did you have--
CC: That's something, living out in California now, I never got involved in the Alumni Band. I get the emails all the time, and it always looks interesting, but it's just difficult for me to come back for those kinds of things.
[00:31:08]
DB: Do you recall any difficult times in the band while you were a member of it?
CC: You know, I don’t. I think everything went smoothly. I don't remember any kind of problems where somebody didn't get along, or there was conflict in any way with the director or the university. I think I was fortunate. It was just always a fun kind of thing, and everything went, it seemed to me, went smoothly. As I said, I think everybody in the band really--adored might be too strong a word--but just really, really liked Frank Piersol all as our band director. Separate, kind of, from the marching band, I did notice in my clippings second year I kind of--give me a moment.
DB: Sure.
CC: You took a picture of something I found in my--an article that I kind of forgotten about, but one of the years, there's a little article that I that I saved, it said that “Iowa State University band director Frank Piersol opened the door as a Christmas present this week”—there it is. This is all the bands, “the two hundred fifty members of the various ISU bands chipped in and remodeled his office for him while he was out of town. Included new rug, new drapes, paneling, painting the walls, installation of a new telephone, and then the door was gift wrapped when he came back as a Christmas present.”  You know, when the students get together and do things like that, I think it shows how much they enjoyed him and respected him. The other thing I remember in marching band was one time we actually had sweatshirts made with the drawing of Mr. Piersol in the front and on the back, it said, “Uncle Frank's marching band.”  Those kinds of things I think show there were no conflicts and that everything was in good shape while we were there.
DB: Okay, yes. I never met him because he left to go to Iowa, I think. Between--
CC: I know he left. I don't remember what time, but you must have met him. I think he was there all four years that I would stay there. I don't ever remember having a different director for the marching band.
DB: Oh yes. We had, I think it was Joe Messenger [Joseph Messenger], was kind of the interim director my first year, which had been in the fall of ‘67. Frank had left, so I heard all kinds of stories about him. Then we got a different director my second year, [Acton Ostling, Jr. (1968-1972)] but anyway.
CC: I did notice--I pulled out a program from the symphony band or the concert bands and we did have a different director for those bands. Mr. Piersol might have been, pretty much, strictly the marching band. At least that was one of his principal requirements of the time. [ed. note: Frank Piersol’s last year as Director of Bands was 1967.] 
[00:34:42]
DB: What’s the marching band mean to you, Craig?
CC: Well, as I said, at the time when I was a freshman and somewhat homesick, it meant everything to me. It was the one, really, highlight in my first few months at college that kept me there, that gave me enjoyment. So, that was a huge part of my recollection of the band and how important it was to me at the time. I still get a thrill of watching marching bands. There's something about a marching band--I guess you have to like marching music--but there's something about it that gives you a feeling of excitement. Even today, I have a friend who teases me that every Fourth of July I do nothing but play marches on and my music things, [Brand laughs] just because it's such an uplifting kind of music to me. Having been able to be a part of that in my college years was wonderful, and it's great memories for me.
[00:35:52]
DB: Do you have a most memorable experience while you were in the marching band?
CC: Not any one thing, no. There really wasn't. It was just the fun every weekend of being part of that unit, being able to perform. No one thing that jumped out as a highlight. I think the whole experience was just a highlight to me.
[00:36:20]
DB: Yes, agree. And you've kind of already touched on it, but involvement in the Alumni Marching Band?
CC: Yes, like I said, being in California, that's been real difficult for me. I would keep thinking I should go back on homecoming sometime, and probably not participate at this point. It's been too long since I've had drumsticks in my hand [Brand laughs] to perform very much. But it would be fun just to go back and, you know, mingle around and kind of watch it, and look at it and, see what fun it is for so many of the band members who still participate in it.
DB: Well, you have got eight or nine months to practice.
CC: Well, that's true. [both laugh] I probably have some drumsticks hidden around here somewhere.
DB: I'm sure somebody could probably come up with--
CC: I'm real good at using my hands on the upper leg. You know, playing cadences and stuff.
[00:37:25]
DB: Okay. Are there any questions that we didn't cover, but brought things to mind that you would like to have folks know?
CC: You know, the one thing that I didn't think of, that we didn't cover, that was exciting to me, not exciting, but it was interesting to me, and was kind of a benefit--and I don't remember exactly, but as I said, I was kind of a wimp. We had the requirements at that time, for the education, we had to have--and I can't remember if it was all four years or at least two years--we had to take a physical education class as a requirement. I was always so excited that we got credit for physical education by being in the marching band. So, I didn't--
DB: Yes, I remember that now that you say it. [Claussen laughs] 
CC: That was always a thrill to me. I thought, Oh god. I got four quarters of marching band to cover my physical education requirements, and I didn't have to worry about what kind of classes to take. That was great for me at the time. I'm sure we got just as much exercise, if not more exercise, than a lot of the other physical education classes that other kids had to take. Because we did work hard. Marching takes energy, and we worked hard at it. So, it was rightly so that we should have gotten credit for those physical education classes.
[00:39:00]
DB: Yes, I would agree. Anything else?
CC: No. Nothing else that pops in my head. Pretty much all the things that we've talked about. Getting away from the marching band, the symphony concert band was also an important part of my music at that time, that band. We would perform on campus, and we would actually go on tour. Just small tours, and play concerts in smaller towns around the state, and in some of the close cities like Vermillion, South Dakota. Went to the western side of the state one year, and down another year, kind of to the southern, and we would get just over the border and play concerts. That was a good memory also, as far as music in general and participating in the bands. So it was, yes, pretty much a major part of my entertainment while I was in college. My philosophy is more people need to pay more attention to music and to the arts. Sports are great, and they're fun, but music is something that continues all your life and all levels, for marching band to classical music and right on down the line.
DB: Yes. Agree.
[00:40:31]
DB: So, anything else?
CC: Can't think of a whole lot. It's been fun talking to you about it. It has been a good time because it did make me look back and refresh my memory on lots of the things that as you get older, kind of slip your head. So, [laughs] I appreciate the opportunity to talk about it and share some of my recollections.
DB: Yes. Well, we thank you for being willing to share those experiences and memories with everyone through this history project.